[documentation]: Review the Queries chapter (#66)
hyperledger/iroha-2-docs: src/guide/advanced/queries.md

# Queries

Although much of the information about the state of the blockchain can be
obtained, as we've shown before, using an event subscriber and a filter to
narrow the scope of the events to those of interest, sometimes you need to
take a more direct approach. Enter _queries_.

Queries are small instruction-like objects that, when sent to an Iroha
peer, prompt a response with details from the current world state view.

::: info

As of writing, most queries can not be filtered, but can be
[paginated](#pagination). As such, some queries, which we'll mark with a
warning sign, should be used with great care, and you should think about
the pagination scheme for them.

:::

## Conventions

In the following sections we shall try to mirror the module structure of
the queries and present to you what they do.

Before we proceed, we should discuss a few conventions. We use the
expressions _gets_, _returns_, _searches_ with a precise meaning in the
following (somewhat encyclopædic) section.

- _gets_ means that the query already has the data readily available and
  the data is trivial. Use these queries at will;

> - _returns_ means that the query has the data readily available, just as

Author: ```suggestion
- _returns_ or _finds_ mean that the query has the data readily available, just as
```

  with _gets_, but the data is not trivial. You can still use these
  queries, but be mindful of the performance impact;
- _searches_ differs from the above two. Data must be actively collected
  and neither the return type nor the collection process is cheap. Use with

>   great care.

Author: I don't think we follow this scheme precisely as we claim to do

let pagination = Pagination::new(Some(starting_result), Some(limit));
```

## Role

> An optional feature. Be default, it is present on all Iroha 2 deployments

Reviewer: ```suggestion
An optional feature. By default, it is present on all Iroha 2 deployments
```
